# Prerequisite for Azure Administrators
## Configure Azure Resources with tools
### Use of Azure Cloud Shell
- Azure cloud shell is temporary and requires a new or existing Azure file share to be mounted. 
- It requires a resource group, storage account and file share.
- It persists $HOME using a 5GB image in file share.
- It timesout after 20 mins without interactive activity.

### Use of Azure Powershell
- Azure powershell add azure specific commands in powershell.
- A **cmdlet** is a lightweight command used in the powershell environment.

### Use of Azure CLI
- Commands in CLI are structured in groups and subgroups.
- Use `az find` to find commands.

## Use Azure Resource Manager
- Azure Resource manager provide several benefits: 
    - You can deploy, manage and monitor all the resources of your solution as a group.
    - You can manage your infra through declarative templates.
- Arrange resouces with same life cycle in a resource group. Use tags for all other organizing of resources.
- Before deploying your resources, you should gain an understanding of the available resource providers.
- Currently immutable deployments are not supported in a resouce groups. Deployments in a resource grup are incremental. For immutable deployment, you should create a new resource group.
- Couple of small rules for resource groups
    - Resource can only be part of one resource group.
    - Resource groups cannot be renamed
    - Resouce group may contain resources from multiple regions.
- Resource group stores metadata about resources, that is the reason we need to specify location for resource group where the data is stored.
- **Azure Resource Manager locks** allow organizations to put a structure in place to prevent the accidental deletion of resouces in Azure.
- There are two types of locks: 
    - Read-only locks
    - Delete locks
- When moving azure resources across subscription, region or resource group, the source group and target group will be locked. Locks doesn't mean resources aren't available, this lock means you can't add, update or delete resources in the resource groups.
- Deleting a resouce group deletes all the resources contained in it.
- Limits shown in the *Usage+quota* are limits of your subscription. This can be increased.
- There is maximum limit for all resouces beyond it can't be increased.
## Configure resouces with ARM template
- You can deploy a resouce manager template into a resouce group as a single operation.
- ARM templates are written in JSON.
- You are limited to 256 parameters in a template.
- **Azure Bicep** is a domain-specific language (DSL) that uses declarative syntax to deploy Azure resouces.
- Bicep syntax over JSON reduces complexity and improves the development experience.
- Tooling transpiles Bicep template to JSON template. 
- Transpilation is the process of converting source code written in one language to another.
- In most situations, Bicep automatically detects dependencies between your resouces.
- **Azure Quickstart templates** are ARM templates provided by the Azure community.
## Automate Azure tasks using scripts with Powershell
- The extra Azure Az Powershell module should be installed to add azure specific commands to powershell.
- Cmdlets follow verb-noun convention.
- Add the following module to create vm in azure cloud shell sandbox
```bash
Install-Module Az.Compute -RequiredVersion 4.23.0 -Force
```
## Control azure service with CLI
- The advantages of infrastructre as code are: 
    - Consistent Configuration
    - Improved scalability
    - Faster deployments
    - Better traceablity
- ARM templates are *idempotent*.
- If deployment becomes more complex, we can break the ARM template into smaller units.
- You can also integrate ARM templates into CI/CD tools like **Azure Pipeline**.