# Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals: Explore visual tools for machine learning

- There are two general approaches to machine learning, **supervised** and **unsupervised** machine learning. 
- The supervised machine learning approach requires you to start *with* a dataset with known label values. Two types of supervised machine learning tasks include **regression** and **classification**.
- The unsupervised machine learning approach starts with a dataset *without* known label values. One type of unsupervised machine learning task is **clustering**.
- Azure Automated Machine Learning - For people with a data science and programming background, it provides a way to save time and resources by automating algorithm selection and hyperparameter tuning.
- Regression is a form of machine learning used to understand the relationships between variables to predict a desired outcome. 
- There are four kinds of compute resource you can create:
    - **Compute Instances**: Development workstations that data scientists can use to work with data and models.
    - **Compute Clusters**: Scalable clusters of virtual machines for on-demand processing of experiment code.
    - **Inference Clusters**: Deployment targets for predictive services that use your trained models.
    - **Attached Compute**: Links to existing Azure compute resources, such as Virtual Machines or Azure Databricks clusters.
- Each designer project, known as a **pipeline**.
- An Azure Machine Learning component encapsulates one step in a machine learning pipeline. 
- **Pipelines** let you organize, manage, and reuse complex machine learning workflows across projects and users.
- An Azure Machine Learning (ML) job executes a task against a specified compute target.
- To deploy your pipeline, you must first convert the training pipeline into a real-time inference pipeline.
- There are four kinds of compute resource you can create:
    - Compute Instances:
    - Compute Clusters:
    - Inference Clusters:
    - Attached Compute:
- Clustering is a form of machine learning that is used to group similar items into clusters based on their features.