- The Language service provides advanced natural language processing over raw text, and includes four main functions: sentiment analysis, key phrase extraction, language detection, and named entity recognition.
- Text analytics service will return `NaN` when it cannot determine the language in the provided text.
- Score values closer to 1 indicated a more positive sentiment where scores closer to 0 indicated negative sentiment.
- For speech recogniztion, the software typically uses multiple types of models, including:
    - An *acoustic* model that converts the audio signal into phonemes (representations of specific sounds).
    - A *language* model that maps phonemes to words, usually using a statistical algorithm that predicts the most probable sequence of words based on the phonemes.
- Translator service uses a *Neural Machine Translation* (NMT) model for translation, which analyzes the semantic context of the text and renders a more accurate and complete translation as a result.
- The Translator API offers some optional configuration to help you fine-tune the results that are returned, including:
    - Profanity filtering
    - Selective translation
- The Translator service can translate from a text source, but not from an audio source. The Speech service can translate from audio sources to text.
- An **utterance** is an example of something a user might say, and which your application must interpret.
- An **entity** is an item to which an utterance refers. 
- An **intent** represents the purpose, or goal, expressed in a user's utterance.
- Of special interest is the **None** intent. You should consider always using the None intent to help handle utterances that do not map any of the utterances you have entered. The None intent is considered a fallback, and is typically used to provide a generic response to users when their requests don't match any other intent.
- There are four types of entities:
    - Machine-Learned
    - List
    - Regex
    - Pattern.any
- To author a Conversational Language Understanding model, you need a Language resource.
- You can easily create a user support bot solution on Microsoft Azure using a combination of two core services:
    - Language Service
    - Azure Bot service
- You can import question and answer pairs from an existing FAQ document into a question answering knowledge base.
