# AZ-104: Manage identities and governance in Azure

## Configure Azure Active Directory
- Azure Ad is microsoft's multi-tenant cloud based directory and identity management services.
- Azure Ad is a managed service.
- Although Azure AD has many similarities to AD DS(Domain Services), there are also many differences.
    - Azure AD is based on http/https and cannot be queried throught LDAP.
    - It doesn't use Kerberos authentication, but uses SAML, WS-Federation and OpenID Connect. 
    - Azure AD include federation services, and my third party services such as Facebook.
- Azure AD comes in four editions - **Free, Microsoft 365 apps, Premium P1 and Premium P2**
- SSPR: In the password reset properties there are three options: **None, Selected and All**
- The **Selected** option is useful for creating specific groups who have self service password reset enabled.
- Azure administrator accounts can always reset their password no matter what options are configured.
## Configure user and group accounts
- Azure AD defines users in three ways:
    - Cloud Identities
    - Directory Sychronised identities
    - Guest users
- User can also be added to Azure AD through Microsoft 365 Admin center, Microsoft intune admin console and the CLI.
- Things to consider when managing users:
    - User profile is optional
    - Deleted users can be restored in 30 days
    - Sign in and audit log information is available.
- To create users in azure portal, you must be signed in as Global adminstrator or User administrator.
- Azure AD allows you to create two different types of groups: 
    - Security Groups
    - Microsoft 365 Groups
- There are different ways you can assign access rights:
    - Assigned
    - Dynamic User
    - Dynamic Devices
- You can't manually add or remove a member of a dynamic group.
- In portal you can manage administrative units if you are a global administrator or a privileged role administrator.
## Configure Subscriptions
- A **region** is a geographical area on the planet containing atleast one, but potentially multiple data centers.
- Azure has more global region than any other cloud provider.
- Some global Azure services do not require you to select a region. eg: Azure AD, Azure DNS, Azure Traffic Manager.
- Each Azure region is paired with another region in the same geography, together making a regional pair. An exception is *Brazil South*, which is paired with a region outside its geography.
- Things to know about regional pair:
    - Physical isolation
    - Platform provided replication
    - Region recovery order
    - Sequential updates
    - Data residency
- An azure subscription is a logical unit of Azure services that is linked to an Azure account.
- There are several ways to get an Azure subscription: 
    - Enterprise agreements
    - Microsoft resellers
    - Mcirosoft partners
    - Personal free account
- The most commonly used subscriptions are: 
    - Free
    - Pay-As-You-Go
    - Enterprise Agreement
    - Student
- The ways that Cost Management help you plan for and control your costs include:
    - Cost Analysis
    - Budgets
    - Recommendations
    - Exporting cost management data
- You can apply tags to your Azure resources to logically organize them by categories. Each tag consists of a name and a value.
- Each resource or resource groups can have a maximum of 50 tags.
- Tags assigned to resource groups are not inherited by resources in that resource group.
- Apply cost savings
    - **Reservations** help you save money by paying ahead. 
    - **Azure Hybrid benefits** is a pricing benefit for customers who have licenses with Software Assurance.
    - **Azure Credit** is a monthly credit benefit. eg: credit with Visual studio subscription.
    - **Azure regions** pricing can vary from region to region.
    - **Budgets** help you plan for and drive organizational accountability.
## Configure Azure Policy
- Azure management group provides a level of scope above subscriptions.
- Management groups enable: 
    - Organizational alignment for your Azure subscriptions through custom hierarchies and groupings
    - Targeting of policies and spend budgets across subscriptions and inheritance down the hierarchies.
    - Compliance and cost reporting by organization
- Management group has:
    - Management group id - non-editable
    - Display name - Editable
- Azure policy is a serive that use to create, manage and assign policies.
- Azure policy use cases:
    - Specify the resource types your organization can deploy.
    - Specify a set of VM SKUs that your organization can deploy.
    - Restrict the locations
    - Enforce a required tag and its value
    - Audit if Azure Backup Service is enabled for all virtual machines.
- To implement Azure policies you can follow these steps:
    - Browse policy definitions
    - Create initiative definitions
    - Scope the initiative definition
    - View policy evaluation results
- Even if there is one policy definition, it is recommended to create an initiative definition.
- Policy definitions have a specific JSON format.
- Policy evaluation occurs about once an hour.
- The compliance state result is either compliant or non-compliant.
## Configure role-based access control
- Azure RBAC is an authorization system built on Azure Resource Manager that provides fine-grained access management of resources in Azure.
- Azure RBAC Concepts:
    - Security Principal
    - Role definition
    - Scope 
    - Assignment
- Deny assignments are currently read-only and can only be set by azure.
- When planning your access control strategy, it's a best practice to grant users the least privilage to get their work done. 
- The role definition is a json file that contains name, id, description, allowable permissions (Actions), denied permissions (NotActions) and scope for that role.
- A role assignment is the process of scoping a role definition to a user, group, service principal or managed identity.
- A resource inherits role assignments from its parent resource.
- Scope of Azure AD role is at tenant level while that of Azure RBAC roles can be specified at multiple levels (management groups, subscriptions, resource groups and resource)
- There are four fundamental built-in roles: Owner, Contributor, Reader, User access administrator. The first three apply to all resource types.
## Create Azure users and groups in Azure Active Directory
- Understanding when to assign the correct type of role to the right user is the fundamental and crucial step in maintaining privacy and security compliance.
- When you delete a user, the account remains in a suspended state for 30 days. During that 30 day window the account can be restored.
- There are different ways you can assign access rights
    - Direct Assignment
    - Group Assignment
    - Rule based assignment
- With Azure AD B2B, you can add users from other organization to your Azure AD tenant as guest users.
- With B2B collaboration, external teams get the required access to Azure resources and services with the appropriate permissions. There's no need for a federation and trust to be established, and authentication doesn't depend on on-premise server.
## Secure your Azure resources with Azure RBAC
- Azure subscriptions use Azure AD for single sign-on (SSO) and access management.
- You can extend your on-premise AD to the cloud by using **Azure AD Connect**.
- Azure RBAC is an allow model
- The access granted by a role, the effective permissions, is computed by subtracting the `NotActions` operations from the `Action` operations.
- Role is a collection of permissions.
## Allow users to rest their password with Azure AD self-service password reset
- Azure supports six different ways to authenticate reset requests:
    - Mobile App Notification (Using Microsoft Authenticator)
    - Mobile App Code (Using Microsoft Authenticator)
    - Email (external to Azure)
    - Mobile Phone
    - Office Phone
    - Security Question
- In free and trial Azure AD organizations, phone call options are not supported.
- After your users register the required information for the minimum number of methods you've specified, they are considered registered for SSPR.
- A strong, two-method authentication policy is always applied to accounts with an adminstrator role. 
- The security question method is not available to accounts that are associated with an administrator role.
- In a hybrid situation, where you have AD on-premises and Azure Ad in the cloud, any password change in the cloud must be written back to the on-premises directory.
- There are three settings SSPR enabled property:
    - Disabled
    - Enabled
    - Selected (only a subset of users using Security groups)
