# AZ-104: Monitor and backup Azure resources
## Configure file and folder backups
- Azure backup is a Azure based service you can use to backup (or protect) and restore your data in the Micorsoft cloud.
- Azure backup key benfits:
    - Offload on-premises backup
    - Backup Azure Iaas VMs
    - Get unlimited data transfer
    - Keep data secure
    - Get app-consistent backups
    - Retain short and long-term data
    - Automatic storage management
    - Multiple storage options: LRS & GRS
- Azure backup has a limit of 9999 recovery points per protected instance.
- **Backup Center** provides a single unified management experience in Azure for enterprises to govern, monitor, operate and analyze backups at scale.
- The **Recovery service Vault** is a storage entity in Azure that stores data.
- The Recovery service vault can also be used to backup on-premises files and folders.
- Within Azure you can create upto **25 Recovery service vaults** per region.
- The backup agent can be deployed on any Windows Server VM or physical machine.
- Configure on-premises file folder backup: 
    1. Create a recovery services vault
    2. Download the agent and credential file
    3. Install and register agent
    4. Configure the backup
- Azure backup for files and folders relies on the Microsoft Azure Recovery Services (MARS) agent to be installed on the windows client or server.
- Azure backup doesnt' limit the amount of inbound/outbound data that is transferred.
- Azure backup service smoothly integrate with Azure File Sync.
## Configure Virtual Machine backups
- There are several backup options available for VMs, depending on your use case:
    - Azure backup
    - Azure site recovery
    - Snapshots
    - Images
- For backups of Azure VMs running production workloads, use Azure backup.
- Azure site recovery protects your VMs from a major disaster scenario when a whole region experience an outage.
- In dev and test environments, snapshots provide a quick and simple option for backing up VMs that use managed disks.
- A snapshot is a copy of a disk at the point in time the snapshot is taken. It applies only to one disk.
- A snapshot doesn't have awareness of any disk except the one it contains.
- Azure backup job consists of two phases:  
    - First VM snapshot is taken
    - VM snapshot is transferred to Azure recovery service vault.
- The default snapshot retention value is configurable to any value between 1 to 5 days.
- Supports disks upto 32TB. Resizing disks is not recommended by Azure backup.
- By default snapshots are retained for 2 days. 
- The recovery services vault can be used to backup on-premises virtual machines including: Hyper-V, VMware system state and Bare Metal Recovery.
- Process to backup Azure VM using Azure Backup:
    1. Create a recovery services vault
    2. Use the portal to define the backup
    3. Backup the virtual machine
- By default, your vault has geo-redundant storage
- When defining a policy for backing up a VM, you can trigger a backup job once a day.
- The Azure VM agent must be installed on the Azure virtual machine for the backup extension to work.
- Another method for backing up Azure VM is using a Data Protection Mangeer (DPM) or Microsoft Azure Backup Server (MABS).
- The advantage of backing up machines and apps to MABS/DPM storage, and then backing up it to a vault are as follows:
    - App aware back- ups optimized for common apps.
    - More flexibility and granular scheduling options
    - Grouping machines
- The DPM/MABS disks are backed up to the vault by the MARS agent that's running on the DPM/MABS server.
- MARS do not have support for linux, MABS do not support Oracle workloads.
- Soft delete for VMs protects the backups of your VMs from unintended deletion.
- Even after the backups are deleted, they're preserved in soft delete for 14 additional days.
- Soft delete only protecds the deleted backup data.
- Site recovery helps ensure business continuity by keeping business apps and workloads running during outages. 
- Replication scenarios
    - Azure VMs
    - On-premise VMs, Hyper V VMs
    - AWS Windows instances
## Configure Azure Monitor
- Azure Monitor key capabilities
    - Monitor and visualize metrics
    - Query and analyze logs
    - Setup alerts and actions
- Metrics and logs are the two fundamental types of data use by Azure Monitor.
- Azure monitor functions:
    - Insights
        - Application 
        - Container
        - VM
        - Monitoring solutions
    - Visualize
        - Dashboards
        - Views
        - Power BI
        - Workbooks
    - Analyze
        - Metric Analytics
        - Log Analytics
    - Respond
        - Alerts
        - Autoscale
    - Integrate
        - Event Hubs
        - Logic Apps
        - Ingest & Export APIs
- Log data collected by Azure Monitor is stored in Log Analytics.
- Azure monitor collects data from each of the following tiers: 
    - Application monitoring data
    - Guest OS monitoring data
    - Azure resource monitoring data
    - Azure subscription monitoring data
    - Azure tenant monitoring data
- Azure monitor starts collecting data as soon as you create an Azure subscription and add resources. 
- Activity logs record when resources are created or modified.
- Azure monitor can collect log data from any REST client using the **Data Collector API**.
- the Azure Activity Log is a sbscription log that provides insight into subscription -level events that have occurred in Azure. 
- With Activity log, you can determine the 'What, Who and When' for any write operations (PUT, POST, DELETE) taken on the resources in your subscription.
- Activity logs are kept for 90 days.
- Activity logs filter categories:  
    - Subscription
    - Timespan
    - Event Severity
    - Resource group
    - Resource (name)
    - Resoruce type
    - Operation name
    - Event initaited by
    - Search
- Activity logs event categories:
    - Administrative
    - Service Health
    - Resource Health
    - Alert
    - Autoscale
    - Recommendations
    - Security
    - Policy
- You can download acitivity logs search results as a CSV file.
## Configure Azure Alerts
- Benefits of Monitor Alerts:
    - Better notification system
    - A unified authoring experience
    - View log analytics alerts in Azure portal
    - Separation of fired alerts and alert rules
    - Better workflow
- All newer alerts use action groups, which are named groups of notifications and actions that can be reused in multiple alerts.
- The state of an alert specifies where it is in the resolution process.
- Different alert states are:
    - New
    - Acknowledged
    - Closed
- Alert state is set by the user, monitor state is set by the system.
- Alerts consist of *alert rules, action groups and monitor conditions*.
- The key attributes of an alert rule are:
    - Target resource
    - Signal - metric/log
    - Criteria
    - Alert Name
    - Alert description
    - Severity - Severity can range from *0 to 4*
    - Action
- Azure monitor and Service Health alerts use action groups.
- **Notifications** configure the method in which users will be notified when the action group triggers. 
    - Email Azure Resoruce Manager Role
    - Email/SMS message/Push/Voice
- **Actions** configure the mthod in which actions are performed when the action group triggers.
    - Automation runbook
    - Azure function
    - ITSM
    - Logic App
    - Webhook
## Configure Log Analytics
- Log Analytics is a service in that helps you collect and analyze data generated by resources in your cloud and on-premises environments.
- Operations Management Suite collects data from all cusotmers performing patches and uses that data to provide an average patching time for specific missing udpates. This use of "crowd-sourced" data is unique to cloud systems.
- To get started with Log Analytics you need to create a workspace. Workspace will automatically use the per GB pricing plan.
- You can create and ave log searches to directly analyze data in the portal or have log searches run automatically to create an alert if the results of the query indicate an important condition.
- You can also add visualizations for saved log searches to your dashboard.
- Each data source and solution stores its data in dedicated tables in the Log Analytics workspace. 
- Some common query tables are: **Event, Syslog, Heartbeat and Alert**.
- Some common operators are: **count, limit, summarize, top and where**.
- Heartbeat table reporst on agent health.
## Configure Network Watcher
- When you have to diagnose network problems in Azure, use Azure Network Watcher.
- Network watcher is a regional service that provides tools to monitor, diagnose, view metrics, and enable or disable logs for the resources in an Azure virtual network.
- To use Network Watcher, you must be an owner, Contributor or Network Contributor. If you create a cusotm role, the role must be able to read, write and delete the network watcher.
- Network watcher features:
    - Automate remote network monitoring with packet capture. 
    - Gain insight into your network traffic using flow logs
    - Diagnose VPN connectivity issues
-  **IP flow verify** is ideal for making sure security rules are being applied correctly. 
- To determine if traffic is being directed to the intended destination by showing the **next hop**. Next hop also returns the route table associated with the next hop.
- Use **VPN Diagnostics** to troubleshoot gateways and connections.
- **NSG Flow logs** maps IP traffic through a network security group. These capabilities can be used in security compliance and auditing.
- **Connection Troubleshoot** enables you to troubleshoot network performance and connectivity issues in Azure.
- IP Flow Verify Purpose checks if a packet is allwoed or denied to or from a virtual machine.
- You can sue the topology tool to visualize and understand the infrastructure you're dealing with before you start troubleshooting.
- To generate the topology, you need a Network Watcher instance in the same region as the virtual network.
## Improve incident response with alerting on Azure
- Every alert or notification available in Azure Monitor is the prodcut of a rule. 
- Composition of an alert rule:
    - Resource
    - Condition
    - Actions
    - Alert Details - Name, description & severity
- You can create alert rules for these items and more
    - metric values
    - log search queries
    - Activity log events
    - Health o f the underlying Azure platform
    - Tests for website availability
- Metric alerts are stateful and Azure Monitor will send a notification only when the prerequisite conditions are met.
- For metric alerts, there's an additional factor to define: the condition type. It can be static or dynamic.
- Static metric alerts are based on simple static conditions and thresholds that you define. eg: 90% cpu utilization.
- Dynamic metric alerts use machine learning tools that Azure provides to automatically improve the accuracy of the thresholds defined by the initial rule.
- There is no hard threshold in dynamic metrics, but you'll need to define two more parameters:
    - The *look-back period*
    - The *number of violations*
- Azure monitor supports dimensions, which enable monitoring data to be supplied from multiple target instances.
- Scaling metric alerts is currently limited to Azure virtual machines.
- By its nature, log data is historical. So usage is focused on analytics and trends.
- How log alerts work?
    - The first part of a log alert defines the log search rule. 
    - When a log search evalutes as positive, an alert record is created and any associated actions are triggered.
- The composition of log search rules is:
    - Log Query
    - Time period
    - Frequency
    - Threshold
- Log search results are one of two types: number of records or metric measurement.
- Unlike number-of-record search logs, metric measurement logs require addtional criteria to be set:
    - Aggregate function
    - Group field
    - Interval
    - Threshold
- Consider using metric measurement when you need to add a level of tolerance to the results found.
- Log alerts are stateless. This means that log alert will generate new alerts every tiem the rule criteria are triggered regardless of whether the alert was previously recorded.
- Log alerts and activity log alerts are different
- Activity log alerts enable you to be notified when a specifi event happens on some Azure resource.
- There are two types of activity log alrets: 
    - Specific Operations
    - Service health events
- Activity log alerts will monitor events only in the subscription where the log alert was created.
- Composition of activity log alert:
    - Category
    - Scope
    - Resource group
    - Resource type
    - Operation name
    - Level
    - Status
    - Event initiated by
- For *Service Health Alert* you no longer need to select a resource, becauase the alert is for a whole region in Azure.
- When any event is triggered, you can create an associated action in an action group. The available actions are:
    - Send an email
    - Send an SMS
    - Createa an Azure app push notificaiton
    - Make a voice call
    - Call an Azure function
    - Trigger a logic app
    - Send a notification to webhook
    - Create an ITSM ticket
    - Use a runbook
- **Smart Groups** are an automatic feature of Azure Monitor. By using ML, azure joins alerts based on repeat occurrence or similarity. 
- There are two ways to get to your smart groups: form the **Alert summary** pane,m or from the **All Alerts** pane.
- Smart group states shows the progress of the smart group in the resolution process.
- Smart group states are: New, Acknowledged & Closed.
## Analyze your Azure infrastructre by using Azure Monitor logs
- Azure Monitor collect data automatically from a range of components:  
    - Application data
    - Operating system data
    - Azure resource data
    - Azure subscription data
    - Azure tenant data
- For some resources (eg: Azure SQL databases) you receive full information about a resource only after you've enabled diagnostic logging for it.
- For VMs, you can install the Log Analytics agent and configure it to send data to Log Analytics workspace.
- You can use Data Collector API, to send data form cusotm code such as web app, azure function or a mobile app.
- Metrics are stored in a time-series database.
- Youc an use the Kusto Query Language to query log information for your services running in Azure. 
- A Kusto query is a read-only request to process data and return results.
- Kusto queries are delimeted by a semi-colon and case sensitive.
## Monitor performance of virtual machines by using Azure monitor VM insights
- Azure Monitor VM insights is a feature of Azure Monitor that relies on Azure monitor logs.
- Azure Monitor VM insigts use a table named *InsightsMetrics*.
- Log analytics workspaces are containers where Azure monitor data is collected, aggregated and analyzed.
- Log analytics workspaces now provide different levels of access control for the collected logs.
    - Access mode
    - Access control mode
    - Table-level RBAC
- The best strategy is to limit the total number of workspaces required for daily operations.
- Azure collects compute monitoring data by using agents. The following table lists each agent:
    - Azure monitor agent
    - Log Analytics agent
    - Azure diagnostics extension
    - Dependency agent
- In addition to writing and working with log queries in Log Analytics, you can use log queries in the follwoing areas: 
    - Alert rules
    - Dashboards
    - Export
    - Powershell
    - Azure Monitor Logs API
- Each Kusto query uses schema entities that are organized into a hierarchy similar to SQL.
- The *schema* is a series of tables logically grouped together.
