# Provision and manage Azure Cognitive Services

- While most cognitive services can be used through a single Azure resource, some offer (or require) separate resources for model training and prediction. This enables you to manage billing for training custom models separately from model consumption by applications, and in most cases enables you to use a dedicated service-specific resource to train a model, but a generic Cognitive Services resource to make the model available to applications for inferencing.
- By default, access to a cognitive services resource is based on a subscription key.
- You should regenerate keys regularly to protect against the risk of keys being shared with or accessed by unauthorized users. 
- Each cognitive service is provided with two keys, enabling you to regenerate keys without service interruption.
- Azure Key Vault is an Azure service in which you can securely store secrets (such as passwords and keys). Access to the key vault is granted to security principal.
- With network restrictions enabled, a client trying to connect from an IP address that is not allowed will receive an Access Denied error.
- Like any software service, you should monitor Cognitive Services to track costs, identify utilization trends, and detect potential issues.
- In the case of Cognitive Services, Azure Monitor collects metrics relating to endpoint requests, data submitted and returned, errors, and other useful measurements.
- To capture diagnostic logs for a Cognitive Services resource, you need a destination for the log data.
-  The Regenerate Key event is an Activity Log signal.
- Diagnostic settings enable you to capture data for subsequent analysis.
- You can also deploy *some* Cognitive Services in a container, which encapsulates the necessary runtime components, and which is in turn deployed in a container host that provides the underlying operating system and hardware.
- Even when using a container, you must provision a Cognitive Services resource in Azure for billing purposes. 
- Client applications send their requests to the containerized service, meaning that potentially sensitive data is not sent to the Cognitive Services endpoint in Azure; but the container must be able to connect to the Cognitive Services resource in Azure periodically to send usage metrics for billing.