# Process and Translate Speech with Azure Cognitive Speech Services

- The Speech service supports:
    - speech to text
    - Text to speech
    - Speech Translation
    - Speaker Recognition
    - Intent Recognition
- **SpeechRecognitionResult** object includes the following properties:
    - Duration
    - OffsetInTicks
    - Properties
    - Reason (Values = RecognizedSpeech | NoMatch | Canceled)
    - ResultId
    - Tex
- **Speech Synthesis Markup Language (SSML)** syntax offers greater control over how the spoken output sounds, enabling you to:
    - Specify a speaking style, such as "excited" or "cheerful" when using a neural voice.
    - Insert pauses or silence.
    - Specify phonemes (phonetic pronunciations), for example to pronounce the text "SQL" as "sequel".
    - Adjust the prosody of the voice (affecting the pitch, timbre, and speaking rate).
    - Use common "say-as" rules, for example to specify that a given string should be expressed as a date, time, telephone number, or other form.
    - Insert recorded speech or audio, for example to include a standard recorded message or simulate background noise.
- The Speech SDK requires the location and a key to connect to the Speech service.
- Use an AudioConfig to specify the input source for speech.
- To set a voice, set the SpeechSynthesisVoiceName property of the SpeechConfig to a voice name, such as "en-GB-George".
- If you are currently using *Bing Speech* or the older *Translator Speech* API, Microsoft offers migration strategies for bringing your applications over to the Speech service. Your Translator Speech access keys will not work on the new Speech services endpoints, which necessitate a migration to the new services.
- You can also synthesize the translation as speech to create speech-to-speech translation solutions. There are two ways you can accomplish this:
    - Event-based synthesis
    - Manual synthesis
- Specify target languages in the **SpeechTranslationConfig** object.
- You can only use event-based synthesis when translating to a single target language.