# Create conversational AI solutions

- Bot solutions on Microsoft Azure are supported by the following technologies:
    - Azure Bot Service. 
    - Bot Framework Service.
    - Bot Framework SDK.
- Available Bot templates:
    - Empty Bot
    - Echo Bot
    - Core Bot
- The Bot Framework Emulator is an application that enables you to run your bot local or remote web applications and connect to it from an interactive web chat interface that you can use to test your bot. 
- The Bot Framework SDK provides classes that can help you build bots that manage conversations using:
    - Activity handlers: Event methods that you can override to handle different kinds of activities.
    - Dialogs: More complex patterns for handling stateful, multi-turn conversations.
- For more complex conversational flows where you need to store *state* between turns to enable a multi-turn conversation, you can implement *dialogs*.
- There are two common patterns for using dialogs to compose a bot conversation:
    - Component Dialogs
    - Adaptive Dialogs
- Using dialogs offers greater flexibility than is possible with a bot based purely on activity handlers, but can be more complex to program.
- The turn context contains relevant information for the current turn - including message text.
- If you are planning to implement a highly complex bot, you can use the *Bot Framework SDK*, but you may want to consider the graphical bot development environment offered by the *Bot Framework Composer*.
- Microsoft provides three ways to author a bot:
    - Power Virtual Agents
    - Bot Framework Composer
    - Bot Framework SDK
- You can implement the following features for UX into a bot:
    - Text
    - Buttons
    - Images
    - Cards
- The following are recommended considerations for text input, from Microsoft.
    - Whenever possible, ask specific questions that do not require natural language understanding capabilities to parse the response. It will simplify your bot and increase the success with which your bot understands the user
    - Designing a bot to require specific commands from the user can often provide a good user experience while also eliminating the need for natural language understanding capability.
    - If you are designing a bot that will answer questions based on structured or unstructured data from databases, web pages, or documents, consider using technologies like QnA Maker that are designed specifically to address this scenario.
    - When building natural language models, do not assume that users will provide all the required information in their initial query. Design your bot to specifically request the information it requires, guiding the user to provide that information by asking a series of questions, if necessary.
- A recognizer interprets user input.
- A trigger responds to a detected intent.
- A language generator formulates output from the bot to the user.