# Create computer vision solutions with Azure Cognitive Services

- **Computer Vision** can be used for:
    - Description and tag generation
    - Object detection
    - Face detection
    - Image metadata, color, and type analysis
    - Category identification 
    - Brand detection
    - Moderation rating
    - Optical character recognition
    - Smart thumbnail generation
- The **Video Analyzer** for Media service is designed to help you extract information from videos. It provides functionality that you can use for:
    - Facial recognition
    - Optical character recognition
    - Speech transcription
    - Topics 
    - Sentiment 
    - Labels 
    - Content moderation 
    - Scene segmentation
-  You need to index a video before analyzing it.
- You can both detect known brands, and well as include new brands you want to detect by providing information about it.
- Image classification is a computer vision technique in which a model is trained to predict a class label for an image based on its contents. Usually, the class label relates to the main subject of the image.
- You can publish a trained Custom Vision model to either a Custom Vision (Prediction) resource or a Cognitive Services resource.
- **Object detection** is a form of computer vision in which a model is trained to detect the presence and location of one or more classes of object in an image. 
- After tagging an initial batch of images in the Custom Vision portal, you can train the model. Subsequent labeling of new images can benefit from the **smart labeler tool** in the portal, which can suggest not only the regions, but the classes of object they contain.
- Usage of facial recognition, comparison, and verification will require getting approved through a Limited Access policy.
- To train a facial recognition model with the Face service:
    - Create a Person Group that defines the set of individuals you want to identify (for example, employees).
    - Add a Person to the Person Group for each individual you want to identify.
    - Add detected faces from multiple images to each person, preferably in various poses. The IDs of these faces will no longer expire after 24 hours (so they're now referred to as persisted faces).
Train the model.