# Implement knowledge mining with Azure Cognitive Search

- With Azure Cognitive Search, you can:
    - Index documents and data from a range of sources.
    - Use cognitive skills to enrich index data.
    - Store extracted insights in a knowledge store for analysis and integration.
- When you create an Azure Cognitive Search resource, you must specify a pricing tier. The available pricing tiers are:
    - Free (F)
    - Basic (B)
    - Standard (S)
    - Storage Optimized (L)
- If you find that the pricing tier you have chosen is no longer suitable for your solution, you must create a new Azure Cognitive Search resource and recreate all indexes and objects.
- The combination of **replicas** and **partitions** you configure determines the search units used by your solution. Put simply, the number of search units is the number of replicas multiplied by the number of partitions (R x P = SU). For example, a resource with four replicas and three partitions is using 12 search units.
- A cognitive search solution consists of multiple components, each playing an important part in the process of extracting, enriching, indexing, and searching data.
    - Data Source
    - Skillset
    - Indexer
    - Index
- An indexer is automatically run when it is created, and can be scheduled to run at regular intervals or run on demand to add more documents to the index.
- Query processing consists of four stages:
    - Query parsing
    - Lexical analysis
    - Document retrieval
    - Scoring
- Facets are a useful way to present users with filtering criteria based on field values in a result set. 
- By default, results are sorted based on the relevancy score assigned by the query process, with the highest scoring matches listed first. However, you can override this sort order by including an OData orderby parameter that specifies one or more sortable fields and a sort order (asc or desc).
- By adding a suggester to an index, you can enable two forms of search-as-you-type experience to help users find relevant results more easily:
    - Suggestions
    - Autocomplete
- You can enhance the index in following ways:
    - Search as you type
    - Custom scoring and result boosting
    - Synonyms
- To enable a field to be included in the results, you must make it retrievable.
- To search files in a blob container, you should create a data source
- A scoring profile calculates a relevancy score based on factors like term-frequency. You can boost scores based on a field, such as file_size; but other factors are also considered in the overall score.
- To integrate a custom skill into your indexing solution, you must add a skill for it to a skillset using the **Custom.WebApiSkill** skill type.
- To integrate an Azure function custom skill into an indexing process, you must define a skillset containing a WebApiSkill with the URI for the function.
- The *projections* of data to be stored in your knowledge store are based on the document structures generated by the enrichment pipeline in your indexing process.
- **Projections** are the component of a knowledge store definition that determines where AI enriched content is stored in Azure Storage. Projections determine the type, quantity, and composition of the data structures containing your content.
- Object projections are JSON representations of an indexed document.
- Table projections define a relational schema of tables for your enriched data.
- File projections creates a .jpg file for each image extracted from a document.
- Language Studio groups its features into three areas:
    - Classify text
        - Analyze sentiment
        - Detect language
        - Custom text classification
    - Understand questions and conversational language
        - Summarize documents
        - Answer questions
        - Custom question answering
        - Conversational language understanding
    - Extract information   
        - Extract PII
        - Extract key phrases
        - Find linked entities
        - Extract named entries
        - Extract health imformation
        - Custom entity extraction
- Azure Cognitive Search implements an enhanced version of Apache Lucene for full text search.
- Azure Cognitive Search uses the **BM25** similarity ranking algorithm. The algorithm scores documents based on the search terms used.
- To add multiple languages to an index, first, identify all the fields that need a translation. Then duplicate those fields for each language you want to support.
- To ask Cognitive Search to return results based on their location information, you can use two functions in your query:
    - `geo.distance`
    - `geo.intersects`
- To use these functions, make sure that your index includes the location for results. Location fields should have the datatype `Edm.GeographyPoint` and store the latitude and longitude.
- `geo.distance` is a function that takes two points as parameters and returns the distance between them in kilometers.
- The best way to manage the efficiency of an AML skill is to scale up the Kubernetes inference cluster appropriately to manage your workload.
- `Microsoft.Skills.Custom.AmlSkill` is the custom skill you can use to connect directly to an AML endpoint.
- Azure Cognitive Search supports two main ways to get data into a search index. So far, you've seen how to pull data using indexers. The most flexible way to get data into an index is to push the data into it.
- Running a successful Azure Cognitive Search solution requires you to understand how to maintain its two primary workloads of **indexing** and **querying**.
- The default option when you create your ACS is key-based authentication. There are two different kinds of keys:
    - Admin keys (maximum of 2 admin keys can be created per search service)
    - Query keys (maximum of 50 query keys can be created per search service)
- These tips can help you reduce the cost of running your search solution:
    - Minimize bandwidth costs by using as few regions as possible. Ideally, all the resources should reside in the same region.
    - If you have predictable patterns of indexing new data, consider scaling up inside your search tier. Then scale back down for your regular querying.
    - To keep your search requests and responses inside the Azure datacenter boundary, use an Azure Web App front-end as your search app.
    - Enable enrichment caching if you're using AI enrichment on blob storage.
- Improve reliability of an Azure Cognitive Search solution
    - Make your search solution highly available
    - Distribute your search solution globally
- Search latency, queries per second, and the percentage of throttled querie are graphed on the overview pane.