# AZ-305: Design Identity, governance, and monitor solutions
## Design for Governance
- To effectively apply your governance strategies, you must first create a hierarchical structure. 
- Governance Strategies:
    - Azure policies
    - Resource tags
- A typical Azure hierarchy has four levels: Management groups, Subscriptions, Resource groups and resources.
- The tenant root group allows global policies and Azure roles assignments to be applied at the directory level.

## Design for management groups
- A management group tree can support upto **six levels of depth**. This limit doesn't include tenant root level or the subscription level.
- An Azure Policy initiative is a collection of Azure Policy definitions, or rules, that are grouped together towards a specific goal or purpose. Azure initiatives simplify management of your policies by grouping a set of policies together, logically, as a single item.
- By default, all new subscriptions will be placed under the root management group.
- Things to consider when creating management groups:
    - Design management groups with governance in mind.
    - Keep the management group hierarchy reasonably flat.
    - Consider a top-level management group.
    - Consider an organizational or departmental structure.
    - Consider a geographical structure.
    - Consider a production management group.
    - Consider a sandbox management group.
    - Consider isolating sensitive information in a separate management group. 
- Azure Subscriptions are logical containers that serve as units of management and scale and billing boundaries.
- Things to consider when creating subscriptions
    - Treat subscriptions as a democratized unit of management.
    - Group subscriptions together under management groups.
    - Consider a dedicated shared services subscription.
    - Consider subscription scale limits. 
    - Consider administrative management.
    - Consider how you’ll assign Azure policies?
    - Consider network topologies.
    - Consider making subscription owners aware of their roles and responsibilities. 
- Access reviews ensure privileges don't proliferate as users move within the customer organization.
- If the resource group's region is temporarily unavailable, you can't update resources in the resource group because the metadata is unavailable. The resources in other regions will still function as expected, but you can't update them.
- Resource groups can’t be nested.
- Resource groups cannot be renamed.
- Resource Tags provide extra information, or metadata, about your resources.
- | Tagging Scheme         | Description | Example |
  |------------------------|-------------|---------|  
  |IT-aligned tagging      |Focuses on workload, application, function, or environment criteria. Reduces the complexity of monitoring assets. Simplifies making management decisions based on operational requirements.| Our printers are busy 80% of the time. We have five high-speed color printers and should buy more.| 
  |Business-aligned tagging| Focuses on accounting, business ownership, cost responsibility, or business criticality. Provides improved accounting for costs and value of IT assets to the overall business. Shifts the focus from an asset’s operational cost to an asset’s business value. | Our marketing department’s promotional literature has increased sales revenue 10%. We should invest in more printing capabilities. |
- Resource tags generally fall into five categories **functional, classification, accounting, partnership, and purpose**.
- You can also define rules that reapply tags that have been removed.
- Azure Policy comes with many built-in policy and initiative definitions (group of related policies).
- The **Azure policy compliance dashboard** provides an aggregated view to help evaluate the overall state of the environment. 
- **Azure Arc** simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and on-premises management platform.
- The following events or times will trigger a policy evaluation.
    - A resource has been created, deleted, or updated in scope with a policy assignment.
    - A policy or an initiative is newly assigned to a scope.
    - A policy or an initiative that’s been assigned to a scope is updated.
    - The standard compliance evaluation cycle (happens once every 24 hours).
- You use **Azure Policy** to ensure that the resource state is compliant to your organization’s business rules. You use **Azure RBAC** to focus on user actions at different scopes.
- Remember RBAC is an allow model. An allow model means when you’re assigned a role, Azure RBAC allows you to perform certain actions.
- Azure RBAC is an additive model, so your effective permissions are the sum of your role assignments. 
- **Azure Blueprints** lets you define a repeatable set of governance tools and standard Azure resources that your organization requires. Azure Blueprints are used to scale governance practices throughout an organization.

## Design authentication and authorization solutions
- Four basic guidelines for strong IAM solution:
    - Unified identity management
    - Seamless user experience
    - Secure adaptive access
    - Simplified identity governance
- Azure AD B2B - Collaborate with guest users and business like suppliers and vendors.
- Azure AD B2c - Control how users signup and use your applications.
- With Azure AD Connect or Azure AD Connect cloud sync, you can bring on-premises identities into Azure AD.
- **Password hash synchronization** is a feature used to sync user password hashes from an on-premises Active Directory instance to a cloud-based Azure AD instance.
- With federation sign-in (AD Federation Services), you can enable users to sign in to Azure AD-based services with their on-premises passwords--and, while on the corporate network, without having to enter their passwords again. 
- Best practices with Azure ID identity management
    - Centralize identity management.
    - Establish a single Azure AD instance.
    - Don’t synchronize accounts to Azure AD that have high privileges in your existing Active Directory instance. (By default, Azure AD Connect filters out these high privileged accounts.)
    - Turn on password hash synchronization.
    - Enable single sign-on (SSO).
- With Azure AD B2B, the partner uses their own identity management solution. Azure AD is not required. 
- Steps to collaborate AD B2B with guest users:
    - You invite external users as guest users to your directory. 
    - Guest user receives an invitation via email. The first time the link is used, the user is asked for consent. The user must accept the permissions needed by Azure AD B2B before they can gain access.
    - If you've enabled multifactor authentication (MFA), the user provides these extra details for their account.
    - Your guest user is then forwarded to the **access panel** page.
- Best practices for Azure AD B2B
    - Designate an application owner to manage guest users.
    - Use conditional access policies to intelligently grant or deny access.
    - Enable MFA. 
    - Integrate with identity providers.
    - Create a self-service sign-up user flow.
- Azure AD B2C requires an Azure AD tenant. This tenant isn’t the same your organization’s Azure AD tenant.
- Your Azure AD B2C tenant represents the identities that are used for customer applications.
- In Azure AD B2C, there are two ways to provide identity user experiences:
    - User flows are predefined, built-in, configurable policies that we provide so you can create sign-up, sign-in, and policy editing experiences in minutes.
    - Custom policies enable you to create your own user journeys for complex identity experience scenarios.
- Reusing user flows creates a consistent user journey across all applications.
- Best practices for Business to Customer:
    - Configure user journeys by using policies. 
    - Use identity providers to let users sign in using their social identities.
    - Customize your user interface. 
    - Integrate with external user stores. (like CRM or Customer Loyalty Database)
    - Third-party identity verification and proofing.
-   | Feature	| Azure AD B2B	| Azure AD B2C |
    |---------|---------------|--------------|
    | Purpose	| Collaborating with business partners from external organizations like suppliers, partners, vendors. Users appear as guest users in your directory. These users may or may not have managed IT.	| Customers of your product. These users are managed in a separate Azure AD directory / tenant. |
    | Users	| Partner users acting on behalf of their company or employees of the company	| Customers acting as themselves. |
    | Profiles	| Managed through access reviews, email verification, or access/deny lists.	| Users manage their own profiles. |
    | Discoverability	| Partner users are discoverable and can find other users from their organization.	| Customers are invisible to other users. Privacy and content are enforced. |
    | Identity providers supported	| External users can collaborate using work accounts, school accounts, any email address, SAML and WS-Fed based identity providers, Gmail, and Facebook. | Consumer users with local application accounts (any email address or user name), various supported social identities, and users with corporate and government-issued identities via SAML/WS-Fed based identity provider federation. |
    | External user management	| External users are managed in the same directory as employees but are typically annotated as guest users. Guest users can be managed the same way as employees, added to the same groups, and so on.	| External users are managed in the Azure AD B2C directory. They're managed separately from the organization's employee and partner directory (if any). |
    | Branding	| Host/inviting organization's brand is used.| Fully customizable branding per application or organization. |  
- A **white-label product** is a product or service produced by one company (the producer) that other companies (the marketers) rebrand to make it appear as if they had made it.
- **Progressive profiling** allows your customers to quickly complete their first transaction by collecting a minimal amount of information. Then, gradually collect more profile data from the customer on future sign-ins.
- A managed device is a device that meets your (organizations) standards for security and compliance.
- Report-only mode allows administrators to evaluate the impact of Conditional Access policies before enabling them in their environment. 
- Things to consider when using conditional access:
    - Use for enabling multifactor authentication for more granular control.
    - Test by using report-only mode.
    - Exclude geographic areas from which you never expect a sign-in. 
    - Exclude geographic areas from which you never expect a sign-in. 
    - Require managed devices
    - Require approved client applications.
    - Respond to potentially compromised accounts.
    - Block access.
    - Block legacy authentication protocols.
    - Use the What If tool
- The What If tool helps you plan and troubleshoot your Conditional Access policies.
- Identity Protection is a tool that allows organizations to accomplish three key tasks:
    - Automate the detection and remediation of identity-based risks.
    - Investigate risks using data in the portal.
    - Export risk detection data to other tools.
- There are two risk policies that are evaluated: **user risk and sign in risk**.
- A user risk represents the probability that a given identity or account is compromised.
- Microsoft's recommendation is to set the user risk policy threshold to **High**.
- A sign-in risk represents the probability that a given sign-in (authentication request) isn't authorized by the identity owner.
- Microsoft's recommendation is to set the sign-in risk policy to **Medium and above** and allow self-remediation options. Self-remediation options, like password change and multifactor authentication, will have less impact than blocking users.
- An access review is a planned review of the access needs, rights, and history of user access. Access reviews mitigate risk by protecting, monitoring, and auditing access to critical assets.
- The creator of the access review decides who will conduct the review. This setting can't be changed once the review is started.
- **Azure managed identity** automatically creates identities to allow apps to authenticate with Azure resources and services.
- A managed identity combines Azure AD authentication and Azure role-based access control (RBAC).
- When you work with managed identities, you should be familiar some common terms:
    - Client ID: A unique ID that's linked to the Azure AD application and service principal that was created when you provisioned the identity.
    - Object ID: The service principal object of the managed identity.
    - Azure Instance Metadata Service: A REST API that's enabled when Azure Resource Manager provisions a VM. The endpoint is accessible only from within the VM.
- There are two types of managed identities: System-assigned & User-assigned.
- When to use system assigned managed identity:
    - Workloads that are contained within a single Azure resource
    - Workloads for which you need independent identities.
- When to use User-assigned managed identity:
    - Workloads that run on multiple resources and which can share a single identity.
    - Workloads that need pre-authorization to a secure resource as part of a provisioning flow.
    - Workloads where resources are recycled frequently, but permissions should stay consistent.
- The security principal defines the access policy and permissions for the user/application in the Azure AD tenant. 
- There are three types of service principal: Application, Managed Identity & Legacy.
- A multi-tenant application has a service principal created in each tenant where a user from that tenant has consented to its use.
- There are two representations of applications in Azure AD:
    - Application objects - Although there are exceptions, application objects can be considered the definition of an application.
    - Service principals - Can be considered an instance of an application. Service principals generally reference an application object, and one application object can be referenced by multiple service principals across directories.
- The application object will only exist in its home directory, even if it's a multi-tenant application supporting service principals in other directories.
-  For any given application, it can have at most one application object (which is registered in a "home" directory) and one or more service principal objects representing instances of the application in every directory in which it acts.
- Microsoft identity platform supports two types of permissions: delegated permissions and application permissions.
- Azure Key Vault helps solve the following problems: Secrets Management, Key Management & Certificate Management.
- Azure Key Vault has two service tiers: Standard, which encrypts with a software key, and a Premium tier, which includes hardware security module(HSM)-protected keys.
- A Hardware Security Module (HSM) is a physical computing device used to safeguard and manage cryptographic keys. Keys stored in HSMs can be used for cryptographic operations. The key material stays safely in tamper-resistant, tamper-evident hardware modules.
- Key Vault has access logging and monitoring to help you understand how and when secrets are accessed.
- A common scenario where a SAS is useful is a service where users read and write their own data to your storage account.

## Design a solution to log and monitor Azure resources
- Azure Monitor Metrics can support near real-time scenarios, making them useful for alerting and fast detection of issues.
- Data in a workspace is organized into tables, each of which stores different kinds of data and has its own unique set of properties based on the resource generating the data.
- A Log Analytics workspace provides:
    - A geographic location for data storage.
    - Data isolation by granting different users access rights following one of our recommended design strategies.
    - Scope for configuration of settings like pricing tier, retention, and data capping.
- Customers that ingest more than 4TB/day are expected to create their own dedicated clusters for their workspaces - it enables them better control and higher ingestion rate (Otherwise System create clusters).
- The following workspace deployment models have been commonly used: Centralize, Decentralized & Hybrid.
- The Windows agent can report up to four workspaces.
- The Linux agent does not support multi-homing and can only report to a single workspace.
- The data a user has access to is determined by a combination of factors that are listed below
    - Access mode
    - Access control mode
    - Permissions
    - Table level Azure RBAC
- Users have two options for accessing the data: Workspace-context & Resource-context.
-   | Issue	| Workspace-context	| Resource-context |
    |-------|-------------------|------------------|
    | Who is each model intended for? | Central administration. | Application teams. |
    | What does a user require to review logs? | Permissions to the workspace. | Read access to the resource.|
    | What is the scope of permissions? | Workspace| Azure resource.|
    | How can user access logs? | Start logs from Azure Monitor and Log Analytics workspaces. | Same as workspace-context, and you start logs from the Azure resource.|
- Workspaces are not limited in their storage space and can grow to petabytes of data. There is **no need to split workspaces due to scale**.
- The default ingestion rate limit is about **6 GB/minute** and is designed to enable normal ingestion.
- When the ingestion rate limit is activated or get to 80% of the threshold, an event is added to the Operation table in your workspace. It is recommended to monitor it and create an alert.
- Workbooks provide a flexible canvas for data analysis and the creation of rich visual reports within the Azure portal. 
- Workbooks are currently compatible with the following data sources:
    - Logs
    - Metrics
    - Azure Resource Graph
    - Alerts
    - Workload Health
    - Azure Resource Health
    - Azure Data Explorer
- Application Insights is aimed at the development team, to help you understand how your app is performing and how it's being used. 
- **Azure Data Explorer** is a fast and highly scalable data exploration service for log and telemetry data. 
- Azure Data Explorer is also well integrated with ML services such as Databricks and Azure Machine Learning.
