# AZ-305: Design infrastructure solutions
## Design a compute solution
- Azure offers several compute services:
    - Virtual machines (IaaS)
    - Azure Batch (PaaS)
    - Azure Functions (FaaS)
    - Azure Logic Apps (PaaS)
    - Container Instances (PaaS)
    - App Service (PaaS)
    - Azure Kubernetes Service (PaaS)
    - Azure Service Fabric
- **Cloud optimized** refactors an application to take advantage of cloud-native features and capabilities. A **lift and shift** strategy migrates workloads without redesigning the application or making code changes. 
- Let's walk through a checklist of things to think about when designing for Azure VMs.
    - Start with the network
    - Name the VM
    - Decide the location for the VM
    - Determine the size of the VM
    - Review the pricing model
    - Review the storage options
    - Select an operating system
- Try the **Virtual machines selector tool** to find other sizes that best fit your workload.
- Keep in mind that Azure only supports 64-bit operating systems.
- Azure Batch works well with applications that run independently (parallel workloads). Azure Batch is also effective for applications that need to communicate with each other (tightly coupled workloads). 
- Best practices for Azure Batch are grouped into pools, nodes, and jobs.
    - If your jobs consist of short-running tasks, don’t create a new pool for each job.
    - Individual nodes aren’t guaranteed to always be available. 
    - Uniquely name your jobs so you can accurately monitor and log the activity.
- Azure App Service is an HTTP-based service that lets you build and host web apps, background jobs, mobile backends, and RESTful APIs. 
- When using a Standard App Service Plan tier or better, you can deploy your app to a staging environment, validate your changes, and do smoke tests. When you’re ready, you can swap your staging and production slots.
- Azure App Service provides built-in authentication and authorization capabilities (sometimes referred to as "Easy Auth").
- You can use the **WebJobs** feature to run a program or script. 
- If you want to run multiple instances of an application on a single host machine, containers are an excellent choice.
- A container group is a collection of containers that get scheduled on the same host machine. The containers in a container group share a lifecycle, resources, local network, and storage volumes.
- Kubernetes provides both container management and container orchestration.
    - **Container management** is the process of organizing, adding, removing, or updating a significant number of containers. Most of these tasks are manual and error prone.
    - **Container orchestration** is a system that automatically deploys and manages containerized apps. 
- The Kubernetes cluster is managed by Azure and is free. You manage the agent nodes in the cluster and only pay for the VMs on which your nodes run.
- AKS supports two auto cluster scaling options. 
    - The horizontal pod autoscaler watches the resource demand of pods and will increase pods to match demand. 
    - The cluster autoscaler component watches for pods that can't be scheduled because of node constraints. It will automatically scale cluster nodes to deploy scheduled pods.
- Azure Functions are used when you want to run a small piece of code in the cloud, without worrying about the infrastructure.
- Best practices and tips for using Azure Functions:
    - Avoid long running functions. - The default timeout is 300 seconds for Consumption Plan functions, 30 minutes for any other plan.
    - Know when to use durable functions.
    - Organize functions for performance and scaling.
    - Write defensive functions.
    - Avoid sharing storage accounts.
- When you create a function app, you must associate it with a storage account. To maximize performance, use a separate storage account for each function app. This is important if your function generates a high volume of storage transactions.
- Azure Logic Apps is a cloud-based platform for creating and running automated workflows. 
- Azure Functions is a code-first technology. Azure Logic Apps is a design-first technology.
- You can call functions from logic apps and call logic apps from functions. 
- When designing for Logic Apps consider integration, performance, conditionals, and connectors.
- If you're building an app with no external connections, Logic Apps is probably not the best option.
- The cases where Logic Apps might not be the best option include real-time requirements, complex business rules, or use of non-standard services.

## Design an application architecture

- Messages have the following characteristics.
    - Contains raw data, produced by one component, that will be consumed by another component.
    - Contains the data itself, not just a reference to that data.
- Comparison of Azure messaging services:
    | Service	| Purpose	| Type	| When to use | 
    |-----------|-----------|-------|-------------|
    |Event Grid	| Reactive programming	| Event distribution (discrete)	| React to status changes |
    |Event Hubs	| Big data pipeline	| Event streaming (series)	| Telemetry and distributed data streaming |
    |Service Bus	| High-value enterprise messaging	| Message	| Order processing and financial transactions |  
- Events are lighter weight than messages and are most often used for broadcast communications. 
- **Azure Queue storage** is a service that uses Azure Storage to store large numbers of messages.
- Azure Service Bus queues is a message broker system built on top of a dedicated messaging infrastructure. Like Azure queues, Service Bus holds messages until the target is ready to receive them.
- Azure Service Bus topics are like queues but can have multiple subscribers. When a message is sent to a topic, multiple components can be triggered to perform a task.
- Event Hubs support real time data ingestion and microservices batching on the same stream. 
- Scaling of Event Hubs is controlled by how many throughput units or processing units you purchase. Other performance aspects depend on the pricing tier chosen. Basic, standard, premium, and dedicated pricing tiers are available.
- **Azure Cache for Redis** provides an in-memory data store based on the Redis software.
- Azure API Management is a cloud service platform that lets you publish, secure, maintain, and analyze all your company's APIs. 
- **Azure Automation** delivers a cloud-based automation and configuration service that supports consistent management across your Azure and non-Azure environments. Automation gives you complete control of process automation, configuration management, and update management.
- **Azure App Configuration** provides a service to centrally manage application settings and feature flags. Use App Configuration to store all the settings for your application and secure their accesses in one place.
- Azure Service Bus queues provide advanced message handing. For example, the ability to group messages into a transaction.

## Design Network Solutions
- You can deploy as many virtual networks as required within each subscription, up to the limit. 
- If you plan to deploy some Azure service resources into a virtual network, they may require, or create, their own subnet, so there must be enough unallocated space for them to do so.
- If you require that traffic between resources in the same virtual network flow through a network virtual appliance (NVA), deploy the resources to different subnets.
- When you create virtual networks as part of your migration, it's important to plan out your virtual network IP address space.
- A hub and spoke network topology isolates workloads while sharing services, such as identity and security. The hub is an Azure virtual network that acts as a central point of connectivity. The spokes are virtual networks that connect to the hub virtual network by using peering. Shared services are deployed in the hub, while individual workloads are deployed as spokes.
- A VPN gateway is a type of virtual network gateway that sends encrypted traffic between an Azure virtual network and an on-premises location. The encrypted traffic goes over the public Internet. 
- Creating an ExpressRoute connection requires working with a third-party connectivity provider. The provider is responsible for provisioning the network connection.
- A hub-spoke architecture can be achieved two ways: a customer-managed hub infrastructure, or a Microsoft-managed hub infrastructure. In either case, spokes are connected to the hub using virtual network peering.
- A network interface enables a VM to communicate with other resources. Each network interface has one or more private IP addresses assigned to it.
- The recommended Azure cloud native segmentation control is Azure Firewall. Azure Firewall works across both Virtual Networks and subscriptions to govern traffic flows using layer 3 to layer 7 controls. 
- Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN) offers developers a global solution for rapidly delivering high-bandwidth content to users by caching their content at strategically placed physical nodes across the world.
- Azure Traffic Manager is a DNS-based traffic load balancer that enables you to distribute traffic optimally to services across global Azure regions, while providing high availability and responsiveness. 
- Traffic Manager provides a range of traffic-routing methods to distribute traffic such as priority, weighted, performance, geographic, multi-value, or subnet.
- The Azure Load Balancer provides high-performance, low-latency Layer 4 load-balancing for all UDP and TCP protocols.
- Azure Application Gateway is a web traffic load balancer that enables you to manage traffic to your web applications. It is an Application Delivery Controller (ADC) as a service, offering various layer 7 load-balancing capabilities for your applications.
- There are two primary methods of routing traffic, path-based routing, and multiple site routing.
- Azure load-balancing services can be categorized along two dimensions: global versus regional, and HTTP(S) versus non-HTTP(S).
- **Azure DDoS Protection** provides countermeasures against the most sophisticated DDoS threats.
- Customers using Azure DDoS Protection have access to DDoS Rapid Response support to engage DDoS experts during an active attack.
- Azure Private Link enables you to access Azure PaaS Services (for example, Azure Storage and SQL Database) and Azure hosted customer-owned/partner services over a private endpoint in your virtual network. Traffic between your virtual network and the service travels the Microsoft backbone network.
- Azure Web Application Firewall (WAF) provides protection to your web applications from common web exploits and vulnerabilities such as SQL injection, and cross site scripting. 
- A WAF solution can react to a security threat faster by centrally patching a known vulnerability, instead of securing each individual web application.
- An Application Gateway is the best choice for a web application that isn't internet facing.

## Design migrations
- The Azure migration framework consists of four stages:
    - Assess
    - Migrate
    - Optimize
    - Monitor
- Strategies for migration to the cloud fall into four broad patterns: rehost, refactor, rearchitect, or rebuild.
- Migration tools or services:
    - Service Map
    - Azure TCO Calculator
    - Azure Migrate
    - Data Migration Assitant (DMA)
    - Azure Data Migration Service
    - Data Migration Tool
    - Microsoft Cost Management
    - Azure Advisor
    - Azure Monitor
    - Microsoft Sentinel
- Azure Migrate helps with performance-based sizing calculations (VM sizing, compute/storage) for the machines that you'll migrate and estimate the ongoing cost of running these machines in Azure. 
- Azure Migrate can assess both Hyper-V and VMware-based virtual machines, as well as physical servers.
- The Migration Assistant migrates your web application and its associated configurations, but does not migrate any backend databases connected to the app. You can use the SQL Migration Tool to complete the migration of your database.
- **Azure Resource Mover** is a tool that helps move your Azure resources between subscriptions, resource groups, and regions. 
- Consider using Azure Resource Mover when, after migration to Azure, and you need to move any of your recently migrated resources across subscriptions, regions or resource groups.
- The database migration service provides two different ways to migrate SQL Server databases: Online migration & Offline migration.
- When considering how to migrate online on-premises unstructured data, consider the following options:
    - The Windows Server Storage Migration Service
    - Azure File Sync
- The Windows Server Storage Migration Service is part of Windows Admin Center.
- Consider using Azure File Sync when you want to migrate shared folder content to Azure. This is especially useful as a means for replacing the Distributed File System on your Windows Servers in your on-premises datacenters.
- The Azure Import/Export service is ideally suited to situations where you must upload or download large amounts of data, but your network backbone doesn't have sufficient capacity or reliability to support large-scale transfers. 
- **Azure Data Box** provides a quick, reliable, and inexpensive method for moving large volumes of data to Azure.
- There are several products to fit different scenarios: Data Box, Data Box Disk, and Data Box Heavy .
- Data Box is ideally suited to transfer data sizes larger than 40 TBs. It's especially useful in scenarios with limited internet connectivity. 
- The Storage Migration service is used if you've one or more servers that you want to migrate to newer hardware or virtual machines. The product provides an inventory and then can rapidly transfer files.
