# AZ-305: Design business continuity solutions
## Design for high availability
- MTBF measures the time between failures for devices that need to be repaired, MTTR is simply the time that it takes to repair those failed devices. In other words, MTBF measures the reliability of a device, whereas MTTR measures the efficiency of it’s repairs. 
- Perform dependency-mapping exercises to identify internal and external dependencies. 
-   | SLA	| Downtime per week	| Downtime per month	| Downtime per year |
    |-------|-------------------|-----------------------|-------------------|
    | 99%	| 1.68 hours	| 7.2 hours	| 3.65 days |
    | 99.9%	| 10.1 minutes	| 43.2 minutes	| 8.76 hours |
    | 99.95%	| 5 minutes	| 21.6 minutes	| 4.38 hours |
    | 99.99%	| 1.01 minutes	| 4.32 minutes	| 52.56 minutes |
    | 99.999%	| 6 seconds	| 25.9 seconds	| 5.26 minutes |
- In Azure, the Service Level Agreement describes Microsoft's commitments for uptime and connectivity.
- Azure Front Door offers a fast, reliable, and secure modern cloud Content Delivery Network (CDN) by using the Microsoft global edge network to integrate with intelligent threat protection.
- Azure Front Door offers Layer 7 capabilities for your application like SSL offload, path-based routing, fast failover, caching, etc. to improve performance and high-availability of your applications.
- Azure front door make use of priority based routing
- There are several general approaches to achieving high availability across regions:
    - Active/passive with hot standby: Traffic goes to one region, while the other waits on hot standby. Hot standby means the VMs in the secondary region are always running.
    - Active/passive with cold standby: Traffic goes to one region, while the other waits on cold standby. Cold standby means the VMs in the secondary region aren’t allocated until needed for failover. This approach costs less to run but will generally take longer to come online during a failure.
    - Active/active: Both regions are active, and requests are load balanced between them. If one region becomes unavailable, it’s taken out of rotation.
- Azure Traffic Manager a DNS-based traffic load balancer.
- Because Traffic Manager is a DNS-based load-balancing service, it load balances only at the domain level. For that reason, it can't fail over as quickly as Front Door, because of common challenges around DNS caching and systems not honoring DNS TTLs.
- Traffic Manager, working with Azure DNS, enables a few failover approaches:
    - Active/Passive with cold standby - Your VMs (and other appliances) that are running in the standby region aren't active until needed.
    - Active/Passive with pilot light - You establish the standby environment with a minimal configuration; 
    - Active/Passive with warm standby - Your standby region is pre-warmed and is ready to take the base load.
- The physical separation of Availability Zones within a region limits the impact to applications and data from zone failures, such as large-scale flooding, major storms and superstorms, and other events that could disrupt site access, safe passage, extended utilities uptime, and the availability of resources. 
-  You can choose specific Availability Zones for synchronous replication, providing high availability, or asynchronous replication, providing backup or cost advantage.
- With Azure Storage, there are two possible options you can consider:
    - Infrastructure-based asynchronous replication
    - Application-based asynchronous replication
- Kubernetes currently provides no native implementation for application-based asynchronous replication. 
- You can use several tools for these backup operations, including:
    - Azure Disks: Azure Disks can use built-in snapshot technologies. However, your apps might need to flush writes-to-disk before the snapshot operation.
    - Velero: Velero can back up persistent volumes along with additional cluster resources and configurations.
- Velero is an open-source tool: You can use Velero to back up and restore your data. You can also use it for disaster recovery and migration of Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.
- All of Azure SQL is built on Azure Service Fabric, which serves as the Azure backbone. 
- Azure SQL service tiers - General Purpose, Hyperscale, Business Critical.
- Business Critical is meant for mission-critical applications that need low latency and minimal downtime.
    -  A transaction can complete a commit when at least one of the secondary replicas has hardened the change for its transaction log.
- The Hyperscale service tier is currently available for Azure SQL Database, and not Azure SQL Managed Instance.
- The Business Critical tier is the only option in the industry that provides RPO and RTO SLAs of 5 seconds and 30 seconds, respectively. RPO stands for recovery point object. It represents the amount of data you're potentially willing to lose in a worst case scenario. RTO stands for recovery time objective. It represents how long it takes to be back up and running again if a disaster occurs.
- Auto-failover groups enable you to manage the replication (and failover) of a group of databases (on a server or all databases in a managed instance) to another region. As with geo-replication, you can choose to initiate failover manually, or you can delegate it to the Azure service based on a policy that you define.
- A failover group can include one or multiple databases, typically used by the same app.
- The primary difference between GRS and GZRS is how data is replicated in the primary region. Within the secondary region, data is always replicated synchronously three times using LRS. LRS in the secondary region protects your data against hardware failures.
- Azure Storage is scalable by design whether you access via Data Lake Storage Gen2 or Blob storage interfaces. 

## Design a solution for backup and disaster recovery

- You can use Azure Backup for these backup types:
    - On-premises. 
    - Azure VM.
    - Azure Files shares.
    - Microsoft SQL Server in Azure VMs.
    - SAP HANA databases in Azure VMs.
    - Microsoft cloud. 
- Azure Backup organizes your backup data in a storage entity called a vault. There are two types of vaults: 
    - Backup Vault
    - Recovery Services Vault
- Use separate vaults for Azure Backup and Azure Site Recovery.
- If your workloads are spread across subscriptions, then you can create multiple vaults. 
- Operational backup for blobs is a local backup solution. The backup data isn't transferred to the Backup vault but is stored in the source storage account itself.
- Blob versioning is useful if you have multiple authors editing files and need to maintain or restore their individual changes.
- The retention period for deleted blobs/containers is also between 1 and 365 days. Default is 7 for containers.
- Container soft delete doesn’t protect against the deletion of a storage account, but only against the deletion of containers in that account.
- Like soft delete, **point-in-time restore for block blobs** also protects against accidental deletion or corruption. 
- Azure Files provides the capability to take share snapshots of file shares.
- You cannot delete a share that has share snapshots. To delete the share you must delete all the share snapshots.
- Back up is available for Windows and Linux VMs.
- An Azure backup job consists of two phases. First, a virtual machine snapshot is taken. Second, the virtual machine snapshot is transferred to the Azure Recovery Services vault.
- In phase 1, snapshots are stored locally for a maximum period of five days. This is referred to as the snapshot tier. Snapshot tier restores are faster (instant restore).
- In phase 2, snapshots are transferred to the vault for additional security and longer retention. This is referred to as vault tier.
- Consider grouping VMs that require the same schedule start time, frequency, and retention settings within a single policy. 
- CRR allows you to restore Azure VMs in a secondary region, which is an Azure paired region.
- In a full backup, everything in the database and the transaction logs is backed up. SQL Database makes a full back up once a week.
- In a differential backup, everything that changed since the last full backup is backed up. SQL Database makes a differential backup every 12 - 24 hours.
- In a transactional backup, the contents of the transaction logs are backed up. Transaction log backups every five to 10 minutes.
- You can store Azure SQL Database backups in read-access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS) blobs for up to 10 years. 
- Active geo-replication can fail over to a secondary database if your primary database fails or needs to be taken offline.
