# Accelerate cloud adoption with the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
## Getting started with the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
- Azure can host VMware, Windows, Linux, and various other technical assets.
## Prepare for successful cloud adoption with a well-defined strategy
- The Cloud Adoption Strategy Evaluator is based on the Cloud Adoption Framework. It helps organizations assess their approach to cloud adoption. 
- The choice of accounting models is crucial in system design. The choice of accounting model can affect subscription strategies, naming standards, tagging standards, and policy and blueprint designs.
## Prepare for cloud adoption with a data-driven plan
- A Configuration Management Database (CMDB) is a ITIL(Information Technology Infrastructure Library) term for a database used by an organization to store information about hardware and software assets.
## Choose the best Azure landing zone to support your requirements for cloud operations
- **Azure landing zones** provide an accelerated approach to deploying your cloud platform. That platform consists of critical design areas that should be included in your cloud environment.
## Migrate to Azure through repeatable processes and common tools
- Migration factory approach:
    - **Assess Workloads**: Assess each batch of workloads to evaluate cost, architecture & deployment tooling.
    - **Deploy Workloads**: Replicate functionality in clouds using IasS, PaaS, Cloud-native etc.
    - **Release Workloads**: Test, optimize, document and review.
- Common Blockers:
    - **Strategy and planning**: The most common blocker to a successful migration stems from missed steps during strategy or planning efforts. 
    - **Environmental**: Improperly configured environments
    - **Governance**: Most organizations have requirements for cost, security, consistency, and identity management that go beyond basic environment configuration.
    - **Operations**: Most organizations have set operations requirements for their production workloads in the current datacenter.
    - **Technical**
- The Azure Migrate hub includes the following tools:
    - Azure Migrate: Discovery and Assessment
    - Azure Migrate: Server Migration
    - Data Migration Assistant
    - Azure Database Migration Service
    - Movere
    - Azure App Service Migration Assistant
    - Azure Data Box
## Address tangible risks with the Govern methodology of the Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
- **Governance disciplines** support corporate policies through a mixture of tools and human processes:
    - **Cost Management discipline**: Optimize costs across a broad portfolio of workloads through the application of budgets, reports, and automated enforcement
    - **Security Baseline discipline**: Apply well-defined security requirements to all supported environments and underlying workloads
    - **Resource Consistency discipline**: Manage resource configuration at scale to ensure that all deployed assets are discoverable, recoverable, and onboarded into operation management processes
    - **Identity Baseline discipline**: Ensure proper authentication and access by applying roles and assignments to each environment
    - **Deployment Acceleration discipline**: Standardize and centralize deployment templates to ensure consistency across all environments and workloads
## Ensure stable operations and optimization across all supported workloads deployed to the cloud
## Innovate applications by using Azure cloud technologies
- You can use data obtained from the application to analyze whether innovation hypotheses are correct, partially correct, or false. This data also allows you to correlate technical aspects of the application to business metrics.
## Prepare for cloud security by using the Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
- Focus your security program on business alignment in three categories:
    - Risk Insights
    - Security Integration
    - Business resilience
- Security benchmarks are configuration baselines and best practices for securely configuring a system.
- Azure landing zones are a logical construct that captures everything that must be true to enable application migrations and development at scale in Azure. Landing zones consider all platform resources that are required to support your organization's application portfolio. Azure landing zones provide cloud adoption teams with a well-managed environment for their workloads.
