# Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals: Explore computer vision

- For using computer vision, you can use either of the following services:
    - Computer Vision
    - Cognitive Services
- Some tasks that can be done with computer vision:
    - Describing an image
    - Tagging visual features
    - Detecting objects
    - Detecting brands
    - Detecting faces
    - Categorizing an image
    - Detecting domain-specific content
        - Celebrities
        - Landmarks
    - Optical character recognition
- Some potential uses for image classification include:
    - Product identification
    - Disaster investigation
    - Medical diagnosis
- Most modern image classification solutions are based on deep learning techniques that make use of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to uncover patterns in the pixels that correspond to particular classes. 
- It is possible to create a 'Custom Vision' for training and 'Cognitive Service' for predicting. For this to work, the training and prediction resources must be created in the same region.
- To use your custom vision model, client application developers need the following information:
    - Project ID
    - Model name
    - Prediction endpoint
    - Prediction key
-  The Computer Vision service does not support the training of a custom image classification model.
- When you create a Custom Vision resource, you can specify whether it is to be used for training, prediction, or both.
- An object detection model predicts a class label, probability, and bounding box for each object in the image.
- Microsoft Azure provides multiple cognitive services that you can use to detect and analyze faces, including:
    - Computer Vision
    - Video Indexer
    - Face
-  Face offers the widest range of facial analysis capabilities.
- Face can return the rectangle coordinates for any human faces that are found in an image, as well as a series of attributes related to those faces such as:
    - Blur
    - Exposure
    - Glasses
    - Head pose
    - Noise
    - Occlusion
- The Limited Access policy requires customers to submit an intake form to access additional Face service capabilities including: 
    - The ability to compare faces for similarity
    - The ability to identify named individuals in an image
- There are some considerations that can help improve the accuracy of the detection in the images:
    - image format - supported images are **JPEG, PNG, GIF, and BMP**
    - file size - **6 MB or smaller**
    - face size range - **from 36 x 36 up to 4096 x 4096**. Smaller or larger faces will not be detected
    - other issues - face detection can be impaired by extreme face angles, occlusion (objects blocking the face such as a hand). Best results are obtained when the faces are full-frontal or as near as possible to full-frontal.
- The locations of detected faces are indicated by coordinates for a rectangular bounding box
- The results from the Computer Vision - Read API are arranged into the following hierarchy:
    - Pages - One for each page of text, including information about the page size and orientation.
    - Lines - The lines of text on a page.
    - Words - The words in a line of text, including the bounding box coordinates and text itself.
- The **Form Recognizer** in Azure provides intelligent form processing capabilities that you can use to automate the processing of data in documents such as forms, invoices, and receipts.
- Use the following guidelines to get the best results when using a custom model for recognizing receipts.
    - Images must be JPEG, PNG, BMP, PDF, or TIFF formats
    - File size must be less than 50 MB
    - Image size between 50 x 50 pixels and 10000 x 10000 pixels
    - For PDF documents, no larger than 17 inches x 17 inches